- [Instructor] After just discussing a bit
about what OAuth 2 is,
I'd like to talk a little bit about how Spring works
with OAuth 2,
and as you might guess, Spring has full integration
for this protocol.
One of the first classes you may interact with
is the CommonOAuth2Provider.
This is used to connect to such systems
as Okta or Facebook
and we'll look at little bit more at this later on
but as I said, it provides native support
for things that you would use all over the internet
that are coom OAuth providers.
The one we're going to use is GitHub.
It's property-based configured
if you're in a Spring Boot environment
and that's most likely how you are going to use this class.
By using the property-based configuration,
you actually get native support in the Spring Boot app
with very little work.
It provides client-side OAuth integration.
It allows you to provide third-party support
for the log in operations
so you don't have to keep that information in your sight,
which is very attractive to a lot of companies
that don't want to manage the overhead
of bringing user authentication in
because after all, when user authentication leaks,
that tends to make the news.
One of the next pieces that you might work with
is the Authorization Server itself.
This is something that you would do
if you're going to run your authorization service
for service-to-service calls.
This what provides authorization
and authentication services to the system as a whole.
Many companies, companies that I've worked for choose
to have your own internal authorization server
and provide a utility to not only mobile applications
but also to internal services.
Creating the authorization service
really is as simple as using
an annotation @EnableAuthorizationServer.
And then you're going to do some configuration
to make that work.
You use an AuthorizationServerConfigurerAdapter
to configure that authorization server
when you're going to use it.
There's a lot of guides out there on how to do this,
so if you do need to set up
your own internal authorization server,
I highly suggest you take a look
at those guides and follow them step by step.
Now, one of the beautiful parts
of configuring your own OAuth this way
is you actually have support from multiple grant types.
Now, many times, you will choose different grant types
based on the situation you're in
so I highly suggest you learn those grant types really well.
Now, next, you're going to build the resource server.
And the resource server provides the resources
that are being protected
and often it's the person system
but it doesn't have to be
as in my service-to-service example.
Configuring the resource server literally
is as simple as doing @EnableResourceServer.
Now, you can go further than that if you choose to
and often, when you're separating your authorization server
from your resource server,
you will need to provide a lot more configuration
but that's not something that I've ever done.
I tend to keep them together for simplicity purposes.
Finally, we're going to talk about the OAuth 2 client
and that's something that we are going to use in this course.
The OAuth 2 client allows you
to have full client-side support for OAuth systems
and things like GitHub that we're going to use
is what we would use as just the client
to connect to that.
To enable the client, you use annotation EnableOauth2Client
and then you provide yourself the ability
to create a REST template
but it's a specific REST template.
It's an Oauth2RestTemplate
that's actually going to manage all of the tokens,
manipulation and injecting them into headers
that you normally have to do
if you were manually configuring this system
and consuming it.
So by using the Oauth2RestTemplate,
you get a lot of the scaffolding for free
such as you might expect from the Spring framework.
Now, once again, you're going to have
to support various grant types based
on your needs, not just the client credentials
that you would use in a service-to-service environment.
So now that we've given a brief rundown, let's jump in.